I'm going to give you seven obscenely
easy ways to get customers for free that
you can Implement within this week these
tactics have made me millions of dollars
they actually work and I'll give you the
real stats that I got when I used them
in my business so you can use them in
yours you should be obsessed with
getting referrals and here's why
referrals buy at higher percentages at
higher prices they buy more often they
buy more times and they're the most
likely customer to yes refer you more
customers and so if you have two types
of customers that you can potentially
get one that cost you a lot of money and
does none of these things and one that's
free that does all of those things which
would you prefer well obviously this one
and independent of how big your business
gets 30% of your business coming from
referrals no matter you're at 100
million or 100,000 a year still grows
your business by 30% and when it's that
big and it's still free that's the type
of stuff that compounds a business into
Infinity versus having one that plateaus
because not enough people tell other
people about it so the first one is when
I looked at one of our portfolio
companies we had a new sales gu who came
in and crushed all of the records that
had ever been done on that sales team
and it was a very experienced sales team
and I was like what is this guy doing
does he have higher close rates on the
phone and he didn't have higher close
rates but for some reason he was able to
get 30 to 50% more sales than everybody
else I was like okay so how is he
getting more opportunities and so we got
on the call we listened to all the all
the scripts we're like he's not doing
anything different and so we pulled the
guy up we were like dude what are you
doing and he said I don't know um after
I close the customer I just say who else
do you know who might also want this and
I usually get like one out of three
people to send me one or two other
people and I just do that on every sale
cuz I learned that uh in my last job and
when he said that it was like this big
obvious duh that I'm sure was in the sop
at some point for the sales team and of
course people get lazy because they
don't want to scare the sale away but by
simply saying hey who else very clear
who else do you know not do you know
anybody yes no it's who else do you know
who do you think would benefit from this
who you'd want to do this with right cuz
now you're actually asking them to solve
a problem with their brain not make a
quick yes no answer which is what most
people are just going to say no I don't
know anybody let's move on and number
one this isn't going to be your
grandmother's you know referral video on
hey you should ask for referrals I'm
going to give you some very specific
strategies on what to do how to say it
in a way that'll actually get the likel
that they do it pretty high now
referrals are super valuable for a
number of reasons one is that they
compound with the business meaning
whether you're $100 million business 30%
on 100 million or 30% on 100 Grand is
still going to be 30% and so it's one of
the most scalable ways to grow business
overall the biggest companies in the
world the vast majority of what they get
is from word of mouth it's from people
telling other people and in today's
society where people are more able to
share things faster and bigger across
broader audiences and networks it
matters more than ever it's so funny
because people are like man why are my
ads they were working now they're not
everybody believes in positive word of
mouth they don't believe in negative
word of mouth but both Word of Mouth
happen because that's how this works
number two referrals who come in are
more likely to buy so they have a higher
close rate they pay more they're willing
they're more likely to buy buy a more
premium version of what you have and
they're also more likely to refer other
customers so you get three spins on the
money-making wheel from having referrals
versus a cold customer so if you have
let's say a recurring membership
business that you have 10% monthly turn
well you can obviously always keep
trying to decrease that turn but one of
the other things that will always come
out at any level so if you have a th
customer you can you turn 10% you need a
100 new customers just to break even one
of the very smart things that business
owners do is they say okay well if I can
get 10% of my customers to refer someone
every month then I can offset that churn
so that my business is stable and so by
having a consistent way to get your all
your customers to refer you 10% you can
make up for the 10% turn that you have
and the ratio between your referral
percentage and your turn percentage is
you're going to be your stable at rest
growth rate and so if you could have
even 20% referrals on 10% then it means
you're going to grow two to one and you
will keep growing 2 to one no matter how
big you get number one this is called
the gift card play so I use this dur
during holiday season so either you make
up a holiday it's like hey it's my
birthday it's my wife's birthday it's
the anniversary of the business or you
go with the standard holidays it's
Christmas it's Easter it's it's uh you
know you can make it a spring thing it
doesn't really matter you just have to a
reason why to do the the gift cards now
what you do with the gift cards it works
especially well at Christmas is that you
say that they are gifts for other people
so you offer to your membership base and
here's the here's how it works is that
you want the amount for the gift card to
be equal to one of your core unit of
service so something that you would
normally give away for free so if you
were an SEO agency you might have a
$2,000 month service okay then it would
be $2,000 is what the gift card would be
now you're like wait $2,000 gift credit
yes this is why it's so compelling if
you had a you know a garage door fixing
business and there's three elements to
your service you'd make it the base
level the cheapest level is what the
gift card would be equivalent to so
let's say you have up to $1,000 of stuff
and the lowest thing is 200 bucks then
you make the gift card one or $200 now
that step one is what you price the
value of the discount the of the the
gift card at the second element is what
you make the discount for and the
discount you want to be as aggressive as
possible and so I recommend 90% or more
discount on this so if I have a $2,000
thing 90% discount is 200 bucks you're
like wait I'm not going to make money on
this hold on the point here is what
would you already give away for free in
terms of service or product in order to
get in your customer probably a lot
especially if you know that a referral
is worth a lot of money and this is
where it gets this is where the money
this is where it gets magical okay is
that what you do is you say Hey I'm
going to be giving these gift cards away
only to my existing customers and you
can only give them to other people for
the holiday season now I'm going to
limit them this is a key Point limit two
per customer because that also gets
everyone to buy two so that they refer
you to customers and so that customer
now buys two 90% off coupons that they
have to give to two individual people
that they can't use on themselves and
when they make the purchase you say who
are you want me to make this gift card
out too and guess what happens there by
making the gift card out to somebody you
also capture the lead and so you get two
referral leads that you get paid for
this is what I'm saying you get paid for
the referral lead everybody else you
have to pay money to get leads here you
get paid to get leads all right big
difference here so whatever if you want
to get really nuanced about it you could
just make it your cost to acquire
customer but I think it's form more
compelling to make it whatever your base
unit is with the assumption that you
know that you're going to be able to
bring this person in and then upsell for
the levels of service and then use that
gift card against that and so obviously
we ran this in the brick and mor gym
space which is where I started and so we
would run say a $200 gift card which is
about a month and you get 90% off so
that people would pay 20 bucks for $200
gift card and now they look like amazing
family members they're like hey I gave
you a $200 gift card and you $200 gift
card to my gym the person comes in with
the card because you have their number
so you can text them and follow up and
then you put an expiration date on the
gift card this is very important is the
expiration on the the gift card needs to
be 30 days because you want them to use
it as fast as possible this is an year
long thing you need to put urgency to
get the lead in the door so then you
follow up and say hey Sandra G uh gave
you that gift card uh let's get you in
here and then when they come in you have
that $200 thing at the base level you
give the free month that you'd be happy
to do anyways and you get their card
right their credit card or you can take
that and say hey I think you'd be a best
suited for the $2,000 package I'm going
to take the 200 put it against that and
boom now I took my $200 gift card put it
against something that's 10 times more
expensive they got 10 really 10% off and
I still got paid 20 bucks for the lead
and to make the sale and think about the
math here so like if you have a big
customer base and you sell two per
customer and you have call it 200
customers in your base uh and you get
you know 30 of them to buy two cards
each that's 60 cards that you give out
and you're going to convert a huge
percentage of those cards so you bring
50 of those 60 in the door and you're
going to close a big chunk of those
people and depending on the price point
multiply that by your price take out the
discount there you go so you don't lose
money for three reasons one you're not
paying cost to acquire the customer two
the amount that the thing that you're
giving away as a discount is something
you should be comfortable giv away that
you would normally give away as a lead
Magnet or a free level of service just
to customer anyways and so when you have
a normal way to get a customer you
usually have some sort of promo and you
have a cost to display that promo to
people in terms of advertising you pay
neither of those costs and then you make
money because you're still getting paid
by the customer to get the gift card and
then the third way that you can offset
this is that you can still sell them
into something that's far more expensive
and so at the very worst case scenario
you make a little bit of money on the
discounted cash to give away an a level
of service that you're comfortable
giving away anyways so the second one is
super tactical and it's a very specific
point in the sales process and so when
someone comes up to you and says hey I
want to buy these Services can you give
me a discount we've all heard this hey
can you make it a little less hey can
you give me a homie hooko hey I know
somebody do you think you could uh blah
blah blah blah right so you say sure I'd
love to just give me the name of three
friends and I'm happy to give you the
discount and so by doing that you can
immediately say like because what
happens they walk into a trap because
they're they're going to like lean in as
soon as you say oh I can totally give
you that discount just give me the name
of three friends and then all of a
sudden they're like oh it's like yeah I
will happily do that if you do something
for me and be amazed at how many times
that actually works I'm like oh so if
you just want me to introduce you to
three friends for your service or
whatever you'll give me this discount I
say sure but we do that right now and
you got to make the introduction and so
by doing that you lock in three leads
they get the discount that you might
have been willing to give before I
personally never discount unless there's
a change in terms and so either I change
what I sell or they have to do something
for me and so this is the second way
which is they basically do some average
iing on my behalf and so in exchange I
give them the discount because I'm
paying that discount is my cost to get
those leads which I'm willing to pay for
if someone's asking for a discount I
mean again everything's going to come
down to what is your cost you acquire
customer normally and so if I figure I'm
going to convert one out of these three
referrals then I would say 1/3 of CAC
times three so 1X CAC your cost to
acquire customer whatever it normally is
is what I'd be willing to give as a
discount on the main thing and as you
become more experienced with this you
start to get more and more predictable
metrics and in the beginning I just want
this to work you can start fine-tuning
hey I'll give you a 100 bucks per
referral or whatever now the second way
that you can do this is that instead of
offering the discount you can offer more
service that's an equivalent amount and
the reason you do that is because let's
say I charge $200 for my thing and it
actually cost me $40 to deliver if
someone says hey can I get a $200
discount I say I'll do you one better
I'll give you $400 of service for free
if you send me the person now the $400
of service to me only cost me 80 bucks
but the perceived value of the $400 of
service actually makes it even a bigger
quote discount for them to get the thing
and send me the traffic and so it's the
second version kind of 2A and 2B of that
second strategy and if you want to hear
how to take the referral process I just
outlined and put it on steroids I have a
course that goes with this book it's
free calm down that's on my site at
acquisition. comom you can click the
leads course you don't even have to opt
in for it and just go to the Affiliates
chapter it's a 45 minute video I think
is that breaks down everything that you
can do to get more customers by
partnering with people who send you
customers on a regular basis and number
three is actually a permutation of
number two but just done instead of on
the discount you do it on the positive
you say hey so you ask for $100 discount
how about I do you one better I'll give
you $200 of extra stuff and the reason
I'm willing to do that as a business
owner you don't say this this me
explaining to you the $200 of service or
stuff might cost me 40 bucks whereas
giving $200 off the price is going to
cost me hard cost $200 and so I'd rather
give you $400 of value for 40 or 80
bucks of cost so actually reduce what my
effective discount is but I also
increase the value for the Prospect and
one of the nice valuable things here is
that you're just encouraging a customer
to use your service more or use your
product more which is always a good
thing and the fourth version of this is
one that I used all the time and it
crushed for me and so what I did was as
soon as the sale was over I would say
hey do you to know how you can get this
stuff for free and every time I did this
when we'd have our sales 30% of our
sales for every one of our promotions
would come from people using the word of
mouth the referral strategy that I'm
about to talk talk about all right so it
works really well and so at the end of
the sale they already got you already
got the card they already signed up and
you say hey by the way do you know how
to get this for free everyone leans in
they're like yeah of course I want to
learn how to get it for free so now
we're not talking about discounts we're
talking about how do I get it free and
so what you say is hey if this thing's
500 bucks you say for every person you
bring in I'll give you a 100 bucks in
cash and it was a real $100 cash check
that I would give these people and so I
had so many people I had have nurses or
teachers who had h networks of people
that they worked with on a regular basis
and said hey you want to do this weight
loss challenge with me or whatever it
was and so I would have one girl come
ref me 10 people make 500 bucks and I
would get 10 customers from this one
person now that was obviously on the
sale not on them making the
introductions that was the big
difference between the the first two and
this one is I would say it was only
after the fact after the sale that
they'd be able to get the 100 bucks but
that slayed for me I've tactically
executed this two different ways in my
career way number one is that underneath
of my contract I had all the names of
the referrals always listed out there
and that would remind me and my sales
guys to ask for that referral and also
know that that person would be
attributed back to that customer
remember I came from you know analog
brick-and mortar I printed out contracts
okay the second way is to just do the
digital way which is hey introduce me
right now with your friend which I'll
show you the real tactic on that uh in
one of the one of the future ones
because it's really good which leads me
to number five which is referral at
success and so the moment that someone
has some big thing you just finished
painting their house or you put their
garage door in or you train their dog or
you help them lose weight there's a
moment of transformation that you have
and a lot of times that's where you
capture testimonials now for sure
capture the testimonial but right
afterwards they're amped they're feeling
good they love your service they just
experienced it when you say hey you're
amazing how many other amazing people
like you do you know and usually they're
like I don't know and then they start
giggling whatever and you're like
awesome can we take a picture together
to commemorate the moment and then they
say yes it's like let me give your phone
so you take their phone you do a selfie
and say hey let's take this picture who
do you know that we can send this to
that we can invite them in so we can do
this with them and by making that ask
and you do it from their phone you text
yourself through their phone with the
picture of you the outcome and them so
if it's you and the dog or you and the
garage or just you and them skinny right
you text them and say hey this is Sandra
you should meet Alex and I used to joke
around and like be like Alex is the
coolest guy of all time he's he's the
most amazing man you should to CU like
they knew that I was texting as them um
and they would get a laugh out of it and
so mind you this is where you have to
have rapport with a customer if you
don't have Rapport then this isn't going
to work but for me this is why having it
at the success moment it's like you've
literally demonstrated the result in
front of you to someone they know and
then that person is making the
introduction being like dude you've got
to check this place out it's awesome
they have the best crepes or they have
the they totally fixed my garage and you
said you were you were looking at at
fixing it look how nice mine looks
whatever it is and that worked amazingly
well to get referrals at the point of
success and so you'll notice the through
line here is that it each of these
moments if someone ask for a discount
boom you can get a referral if you want
to get a referral you can add in a bonus
uh or you can flip the discount into a
bonus you can just ask them uh on a
regular basis hey how do you want to
know how to get this for free which slay
for me you can do the version here we're
at the point of success you take the
picture and you do the three-way
introduction all these versions work
obscenely well no matter how big your
business is to get more customers in the
door let's get the next one if you're
watching on YouTube tell me which of the
seven you're actually going to do not
what you think would be cool or what you
thought was neat which one can you do
and Implement in the next 30 days number
six the next one is a handwritten card
strategy so here's how it works you pair
handwritten cards with in-person events
or virtual events but it works
especially well for in-person events and
so if you have a member appreciation
event or some sort of Workshop or
something that you're going to be
holding on a quarterly basis or whatever
Cadence you have on I'd recommend doing
this at least quarterly if you have
especially a local business and so you
invite the customers in and it doesn't
have to be high budget it's just
supposed to have some fun have some food
it can be a pot lock whatever and so you
invite all the customers uh there and
the way you do that is you write a
handwritten card thanking them for their
patronage and saying this is your
invitation you're cordially invited to
the quarterly or semiannual uh you know
painters R R Us event whatever right and
so you invite them to this event for you
to appreciate them now you say PS This
is key PS on the letter you say if you
take a screen screen if you take a
picture of this letter and you text it
to a friend of yours they can use that
to get into the event they can have all
the food and all the drink they want and
they can come with you and if you want
just so that I know them before they
come in the door just do a three-way
text with me and you can send that
invite like you sending it to them and
by doing that you can collect a bunch of
leads and you say hey it's also all
people are welcome and so they can then
bring other people with them to your
event and when we would do this you get
30 to 50% of the room would be people
who were friends and plus ones of the
people who are coming to the event and
then at the event all day long think
about this all the people were there
love you enough to show up to your event
and so they're all talking about how
awesome you are whatever the thing is
and you're providing stuff to them
you're giving them food you're giving
them drinks you're ging entertainment
you're walking around you're kissing
baby shaking hands and so you seem like
mayor of the town so you get great
positioning and then all you do is as
you go one-on-one you say hey let's talk
on Monday hey let's get a time set up
blah blah blah blah and all you do is
you set a shitload of appointments don't
sell there just set follow-up
appointments so that it's fun it keeps
it chill and that way you can collect a
ton of leads and after they've met you
once in person they're not going to
ghost you on the next thing and the
likelihood they buy because their
friendss already there they already
literally consume something from you the
reciprocity laws that it's highest
amount and so they're really likely to
buy so uh two quick tactical things that
I learned the hard way uh don't book
these too far out like if someone's like
hey I can do it two Eastern I'm like
girl you're here right now I was like
get in on Monday I was like let's
coaching starts now let's go you know
what I mean like I would like I always
try to have that kind of like playful
Rapport so I can get people in faster
because obviously Interest wains really
quickly and so you have a very small
period of time where motivation is super
high and so we want to capitalize on
that moment and after the event happens
and I've already booked them I treat
them like a normal lead so I'm going to
still work them send reminders all the
normal stuff you do number seven is the
spouse request so this is a good one so
if you have a service that a spouse can
do with them so that could be like wine
and paint night that could be like I
said weight loss that could be therapy
that could be anything that somebody
could do you ask them so basically it
proact the obstacle so you get to be
aggressive on it and say hey does your
husband support you in this hey do you
think this would help your husband out
and or your wife out whatever and by
doing that you say hey we have an
amazing uh spouse program and we've
actually seen that people who do it with
their spouse and this is this is the key
part of it is you want to have some sort
of stat that's associated with it that
shows that oh people who do with their
spouse are three times more successful
and by doing that then it's like well
you want to be more successful and so I
would strongly like I don't use the word
mandatory and I would even say this in
the scripting I never say the word
mandatory but unless your spouse has a
reason like they their foot fell off or
they're you know about to go to the
hospital they're crazy if unless it's
one of those reasons they should come
with you because I think it's going to
it's going to it will be far more long-
lasting whatever the transformation is
it'll be far more effective whatever our
our intervention is and you're going to
have a much better experience and you'll
have support here and at home which
makes it way more likely that you'll win
and the last one is a bonus one which is
a friend of mine runs massive massive
online challenges so this isn't just
brick and mortar or just service
businesses like it works for any
business and you just have to think how
can I make this work for my business not
it won't work for my business because I
promise you that is The Voice of the
loser like beating you into losers ship
okay literally just in all messaging he
had all he did for an entire campaign
was simply remind people in every piece
of content in every piece of messaging
in every ad and every post that he did
throughout the entire campaign was he
just said hey be sure to bring a friend
it's far more likely that you'll succeed
you're going to love this if you do this
together and he just said it every time
and at the end of his campaign and he's
getting million plus customers when he
runs these campaigns so massive massive
massive scale 25 to 30% of the customers
that came in from the campaign were from
Word of Mouth were from unattributed
sources and when he didn't do this it
was almost nothing and so he attributed
that big jump to making sure that he wo
in the bring a friend that bring someone
else that you're going to be more
successful that you'd have more support
you'll get faster results if you do it
together and so I would encourage you
obviously these tactics that I just
outlined give you when someone asks for
a discount how to do it if it's the
holidays you use the gift card if
someone has a great success that's the
moment if you want to get an event you
use it to use as a referral event all of
these tools are things that you can use
at specific moments but the big
overarching one is that if you know that
you can generate about 30% of your leads
and this is just what I've seen across
our businesses by implementing these
strategies you get 30% more customers by
just asking and actually weaving this in
and not being lazy about it it's an
obscenely easy way to get customers that
are free pay more more stay longer and
refer you more customers everybody want
to get customers but ain't nobody want
to ask for referrals